# SimpLanPlus
Project for the "Compilers and Interpreters" course of 2nd Cycle Degree in Computer Science of the University of Bologna, a.y. 2021/22.

The aim of the project is to develop both a compiler and an interpreter for the SimpLanPlus language. Its grammar is located at
`/src/main/antlr/SimpLanPlus.g4`.

SimpLanPlus is an imperative language that allows recursion and pass-by-reference parameters. It does not allow mutual recursion and nested function declarations.

## Project Structure

The main package contains both the **antlr** package, a placeholder for the .g4 grammars, and the **java/it/ghellimanca** for the code.
Here we have:
* the **ast** package. Contains all the Abstract Syntax Tree nodes implementations.
* the **gen** package. Here we can find all the files generated by ANTLR tool, i.e. Lexers and Parsers for both SimpLanPlus grammar and the assembly one.
* the **intepreter** package, which contains all the interpreter files and eceptions.
* the **semanticanalysis** package, that contains all the utility classes needed for Semantic Analysis and its Errors (both exceptions and warnings).

The`SimpLanPlus.java` file is the main one and it contains the `compile()` and `run()` methods. It is located in the main package.

## How to compile and execute the code

It is possible to compile the project under the command 

```mvn clean compile assembly:single```

Then to run:

```java -jar target/SimpLanPlus.jar fileName.simplan```

This command runs the interpreter for the given SimpLanPlus file.